# Typo and Misspelling Dataset for OCR Error Checking

## Overview

This dataset contains 2000 instances of typos and misspellings, specifically curated for checking OCR (Optical Character Recognition) outputs for incorrect extractions. The data was generated by processing the 'big.txt' file, with replacements made based on the 'wikipedia.txt' corpus. The process utilized functions extracted from [GeorgVetterGit's typo_generator repository](https://github.com/GeorgVetterGit/typo_generator/tree/main).

## Dataset Description

The dataset comprises the following columns:

1. **original_sentence**: The original text before any replacements.
2. **replaced_sentence**: The text after replacements were made.
3. **replacement binary for changes made**: A binary indicator denoting whether changes were made or not.
4. **number_of_replacements**: The total number of replacements made in the sentence.
5. **changed_words**: The words that were replaced.
6. **number_changes_wanted**: The desired number of changes made in the sentence.

## Usage

You are welcome to use this dataset for various purposes, including but not limited to:

- Evaluating OCR algorithms for their accuracy in handling typos and misspellings.
- Training and testing machine learning models for typo detection and correction.
- Research in natural language processing (NLP) related to error detection and correction.

## Generating Your Own Dataset

You can replicate the process used to create this dataset by referring to the code available in the [typo_generator repository](https://github.com/GeorgVetterGit/typo_generator/tree/main). The steps generally involve:

1. Preparing a corpus of text data (e.g., 'big.txt').
2. Using typo generation functions provided in the repository to introduce typos and misspellings.
3. Structuring the dataset with appropriate columns and metadata.

Feel free to modify the code according to your specific requirements and data sources.

## Citation

If you use this dataset in your research or projects, we kindly request you to cite this repository as the data source. Here's a suggested citation:
@misc{typo2000_T,
author = {Tarannom_Sadegh},
title = {Typo and Misspelling Dataset for OCR Error Checking},
howpublished = {\url{https://github.com/Tarannom-sdgh/typo_generator/}},
year = {2024},
note = {Accessed: 17 April}
}
